.SH NAME
passgen \- command‑line password generator with clipboard integration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B passgen
.RI [ options ] " [length]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpassgen\fR generates random passwords using a variety of algorithms and copies the result to the X clipboard (primary, secondary and clipboard selections).  By default it creates a password of 11 characters using a secure random source.  The length can be overridden by providing a numeric argument or by using the \fB\-\-unsafe\fR option.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show a short usage summary and exit.
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-long
Generate a set of long hash‑style passwords (see the \fBlongshots\fR function in the script).
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-all, \-v
Generate all password types: obedient, disobedient and long passwords.
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-obedient
Generate an “obedient” password using \fBapg\fR that respects the requested length.
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-test
Run a self‑test that exercises each password‑generation routine and prints the results.
.TP
.B \-u, \-\-unsafe \fIlength\fR
Generate a password of the specified \fIlength\fR using the “unsafe” method (bypasses the default length validation).  If \fIlength\fR is omitted, the default length of 11 is used.
.TP
.B length
A numeric argument (without any option flag) that sets the password length for the default generation method.
.SH EXAMPLES
Generate an 12‑character password and copy it to the clipboard:
.PP
.nf
$ passgen 12
.fi
.PP
Generate an obedient password of the default length:
.PP
.nf
$ passgen \-\-obedient
.fi
.PP
Generate all password types:
.PP
.nf
$ passgen \-\-all
.fi
.PP
Run the built‑in test suite:
.PP
.nf
$ passgen \-\-test
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Written by the original author of the \fBpassgen\fR script.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR apg (1),
.BR pwgen (1),
.BR xclip (1),
.BR gpg (1),
.BR openssl (1)
